>>ERICH VON DANIKEN:
We have all heard
of the myths and the
legends of our history,
but is there another story?
[THEME MUSIC] Host:
Erich von Daniken
We don't know where
the gods came from.
In antiquity, we had
connections between humans
and extraterrestrials,
and the humans
asked some of their gods,
where do you come from?
They always pointed
to heaven, to the sky.
In some cases,
they even expressed
some name, some words, but
they mean nothing to us.
When you are in the
universe, and the universe
is endless and gigantic,
and you would just
be one intelligent society,
now you want to find out,
are we alone?
Are there others?
Now for example, you
send an electromagnetic
signal out there and
ask, is somebody there?
Maybe 600 light years
away, there is somebody.
Now, your signal takes
600 years then it
took 600 back for an answer,
means before you get an answer,
1,200 years have come.
So that kind of communication
makes absolutely no sense.
When you want to learn
about the universe--
what is the universe?
How is it composed?
Is it expanding?
What is the spirit of
the universe-- then
you need intelligent societies
in the whole universe.
You have to spread out
intelligence in short distance.
Now you can get in
contact with them.
Now we can ask on the next
solar system, which is maybe 4
light years away, how are you?
Do you have contact with
others in the meantime?
Intelligence to spread
out intelligence
is the meaning of
the so-called gods.
They have come here to
multiply intelligence.
A part of every form of
intelligence is curiosity.
Without curiosity, you
have no development.
You are not intelligent.
So our curiosity
brings us to Mars.
It was curiosity-- the
question what's on moon?
What's on the dark
side of the moon?
What's on the back of the moon?
What is on Mars?
It is always curiosity,
and the curiosity
is a program which was made
by the extraterrestrials
in our genes.
Because of curiosity,
we will spread out, too.
We will go to Mars, but Mars
is only a starting point.
We will go to other solar
systems sooner or later,
and we will find out
that the universe is
full of intelligent forms
of lives, and many of them
are similar to us.
There might be that there are
forms of intelligence which
are completely
understandable to us.
You know I am a
man with fantasies.
And in my fantasy, I
could imagine maybe there
are something that's outside--
something like flying elephants.
The flying elephants would visit
planets with flying elephants.
This is logical,
which is forced.
You cannot change it.
Imagine we humans-- we would
be able to make space travel
in bigger distance.
Where would we go?
Our scientific community
would sit together
and ask, where should we go?
Let's start with our
own solar system.
Should we go to Jupiter?
No.
Jupiter is a giant.
Jupiter's gravity would
kill us immediately.
Should we go to Mercury?
No.
Mercury is close to the sun.
The planet's surface
is very, very hot--
roughly 500 degrees
Celsius, et cetera.
What should we do on Mercury?
Simply burn.
So we humans, we look before
we start for a planet which
has similar conditions
than the one
we are, because we
want to survive there.
We want to use our tools.
So we look before we
start, where do we go?
The same thing happened
with extraterrestrials.
Whatever they came
from, their home planet
can not have been
completely different to us.
It must be a planet
similar to Earth,
otherwise they could not have
survived here on this planet.
So the question where did they
come from, we cannot answer,
but it must have been
an Earth-like planet.
Now, astronomers today
find daily, practically,
more planetary
systems, so we have
to look which ones
are the closest to us.
Probably, they came from there.
If ethnologists-- we
see it another tribe--
ethnologists try
to help the tribe,
but they would not tell them
how to construct a weapon,
for example-- a rifle.
They would not tell them
how to construct a car,
because they have nothing.
They have no electricity.
They have no metal.
They have nothing.
So all what they give is
curiosity and new genes,
which make them intelligent.
And the development
goes by itself.
Time doesn't matter
in the universe.
We had time now--
3,000, 4,000 years-- to develop
our high technological society,
but that was not coincidence.
We had no other way, because
we have curiosity in us.
We will recognize the
extraterrestrials,
because they are similar to us.
They are, of
course, wiser to us.
Their technological standard is
much more advanced than ours,
because if they would not
be much more advanced,
they could never
have reached us.
You know the distance between
the stars are measured in light
years, so if you don't
have the technology,
you cannot reach it.
Even if they have
developed something
like over speed of light,
in our society we say,
according to Einstein, over
speed of light is not possible.
But with the big
distances, there
must be a way for
over speed of light.
They know it.
They know the way
how to do it, so they
are much more advanced than we.
We will recognize them.
At the same time, they are wise.
You know these extraterrestrials
will have technology
to reach out distances
of light years.
They are not stupid, again.
These are not animal-like
beings who just reach
the distances to kill others.
It makes no sense.
They are wise.
They are soft.
They are helpful.
They are understanding
to us, and not
just animals who
are there to kill us
like we have it in some
science fiction pictures.
Professor Doctor John
Mack was a professor
at Harvard University.
He has studied
extraterrestrial abductions.
I knew him.
We have been together just
between us for quite some time.
And I asked him, how
many extraterrestrials
do exist out there?
And he said, there are 100
thousands of different forms
of extraterrestrials out there.
Some of them are humans.
And we probably
only get in contact
with the more or less human
form of extraterrestrials,
but there are 100 thousands
of different forms of them.
We just don't know it.
A universe as vast
as our universe is
must have many, many
forms of intelligent life.
If not, you cannot contact them.
You have no possibility to talk
to them, to learn from them.
So you have to multiply
intelligence in the universe,
and that was the purpose
why they have come here.
We humans-- we have good
humans and bad humans.
We have intelligent
humans and stupid humans.
And why should it not be the
same way in the universe?
But I think the good guys
will win the situation
against the bad guys.
The bad guys makes no sense.
Just to kill other people--
it makes no sense.
We are not a nutrition.
They cannot eat us,
even if they wish.
To do something, you can
just develop it somehow,
like we develop animals.
But it makes no sense--
intelligent species
which travel the speed
of light in big distances--
in my personal opinion,
they are good guys.
They are benevolent.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We travel around our planet.
We know all existing
cultures today.
And there are still
cultures which
are in the stage of Stone Age,
somewhere in the upper Amazon
River et cetera,
but none of them
are slaves of extraterrestrials.
Zecharia Sitchin, my
colleague who died--
he was of the opinion in the
past, thousands of years ago,
the extraterrestrials
used us as slaves.
And it makes a certain
sense, because they used
our labor, our work, et cetera.
But today, I don't
see this anymore.
We would know it.
We know the cultures on Earth.
We have satellites all over.
We can visit all the cultures.
None of them is enslaved
by extraterrestrials.
I had dreams where I
was visited by ETs,
and I was visiting some ETs,
and all these dreams were simply
fantastic.
One day, I was
sleeping in the dream,
and then my sister
came into my room,
wakes me up, but
was all a dream.
Erich, come out immediately.
There are different UFOs.
People are out
[INAUDIBLE] there.
And some strange beings
come out of these UFOs,
and no one understands them.
They are afraid of it.
So I went out of my bed--
all in dream-- and I was down,
and I was incredibly happy.
And I was the only one
who knew their language.
I could say to my humans,
hey, don't do nothing.
Don't shoot.
Just quiet down.
I understand them.
It's my mother language.
We can talk together.
It was a wonderful dream.
In another of these UFO
dreams, I was a pilot,
and I was a fighter pilot,
and I was shot down.
I was killed.
But at the same second,
I was in a room,
which was not on
the planet Earth,
and I felt very, very well.
And there were
beings around me who
were speaking a
language which was not
my Swiss German language,
but I understood everything.
And one of the voices
said, he's back, again.
He's here.
We can hear him.
We can understand him.
And then another voice came
and said to me, very soft,
you have to go back again.
You have to go back
to your planet.
Your voyage, your
duty is not finished.
And then I wake up
in my bed, and I
wish to continue that dream,
but it was just a dream.
In my dreams, I
really think it was
an other dimensional experience.
It was not just dream.
It was too realistic.
I felt everything.
I smelled everything.
And some of these
beings touched me--
touched me with love, very soft.
It was not just a dream.
It was much more than this.
Every form of energy which
we feel or which talks to us
must be extraterrestrial,
because we have not
developed this form of energy.
I mean we have a brain, and
we have a consciousness,
and we can sing, and
we can have fantasy,
but all this happens
in our brain.
Maybe we are able to
develop telepathy, which
is absolutely understandable.
People can talk brain
to brain directly,
without using their mouths.
This is everything possible.
It's my own imagination
which says to me,
there must be spiritual beings.
We are not the
crown of creation.
We are not the top of evolution.
There must be much
more advanced,
high intelligent beings
much more than we.
And that's simply my brain,
my logic who says this.
I was not influenced in this
kind of sort by religions.
Governments, including
religions, have no other way.
They have to disclose
all that story.
Why do they have no other way?
First of all, the
information is in us.
Our genetics will
find it out, and they
will bring it to public.
Second, we have space
probes out there.
For example, some years ago
NASA has sent a space probe
to the asteroid belt.
The asteroid belt
is composed of 100
thousands of blocks.
Some of them are very
small, others are very big.
The biggest of the
block is an asteroid
with the name of Ceres.
Ceres has a diameter
of 930 kilometer--
quite the big block.
We even speak of a small moon.
Now, the NASA probe has arrived
at Ceres, has surrounded Ceres,
has sent wonderful pictures
to our planet Earth.
In high quality,
one of the picture
shows rectangular in the ground.
Now again, we humans look for
the next reasonable scientific
answer before we
go to speculations.
But more and more of these
pictures came to the Earth,
and we clearly know there are
no intelligent beings up there.
There is no life up there.
But we find the
signs of rectangular.
Somebody must have
made it thousands
of years ago in the past.
Somewhere must have been there.
Or our space probes
today are on Mars.
They surround Mars.
A small robot with the name of
Curiosity is rolling over Mars.
And again, we receive pictures
from the surface of the Mars,
and some of these
pictures clearly
show structures
which are not normal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Again, we look for the
next plausible answer,
and sooner or later, we have
no more plausible answer.
We have religions, and we are
educated in our religions.
And now we learn that most
of these things are wrong,
so we lose our ground.
We lose our reason of life.
We say, we have been
living here and praying,
and we went to church, and
we were adoring some gods
and making designs and
technology in the name of them,
and now we realize
it was not spiritual.
It was all extraterrestrials.
They are technologically
ahead of us.
They simply visit us.
We are the primitives
in their eyes.
So we will lose a lot.
And a contact between
extraterrestrials and us--
in the beginning,
would be a shock.
That's why, by the way,
they do it in a soft way,
with crop circles, et cetera.
They had the technology
to do it in a hard way,
but they do it in a soft
way and because they
understand how we react.
So its reasonable, even from
the scientific community,
and sometimes even
for the government
to go forward in a slow
way with that information--
not just shock mankind.
By the way, this is one of
the reasons why I do my job.
I have many speeches
worldwide, and my lectures
are quite impressive.
You see wonderful things.
And at the end of
every speech, I
say to the audience, dear
ladies and gentlemen,
this is not a question
of believe it or not.
I will turn myself in my
tomb if some idiots came up
and make a sort of
religion or sect
of Erich von
Daniken's knowledge.
So why I am doing-- why
I am doing what I do?
Because I want that mankind
see all this information
from the past from
an other angle,
which brings us another
answer and another spirit
of the world.
That's my duty.
I want to change
the spirit of time.
Some of our scientists--
I guess some of the astronomers,
some of the genetics--
they know already what is
going on, but they do not go
to public, because their own
colleagues say, please don't.
You make us ridiculous.
You make our scientific
society ridiculous,
because the people
will not believe you.
We have to do it softly, step
by step, not just like a shock.
And I think this is the
feeling of the ETs, too.
Do it softly, not
shock the humans.
I met in my life
different people
from the scientific community or
from the military community who
showed me and they expressed me
something, which I should not
go to public, but I know it.
I have seen it.
This is why I am so
sure- so self-sure
that I am sitting
on the right horse.
I know much more
than what I publish,
because some things
should not be published.
100 years ago-- exactly
100 years ago in Fatima--
Fatima is a little
village in Portugal.
There, 70,000 people saw a UFO.
Now, at that time, the church
could not say it's a UFO.
They called it-- it was a
wonder, a miracle of the sun.
When you go today to Fatima
and the gigantic cathedral--
the cathedral dedicated to
the holy mother Virgin Mary,
you see in glass painting
the miracle of the sun,
and thousands of people
watching the sky.
Now, 100 years ago
that took place.
It started all on May 13th,
and it repeated for six months,
and it ended on October 13.
Now, one of the girl--
her name was Lucia,
she received a message.
And the message she
should give to the highest
commander on this planet,
not to the King of Portugal.
The message went to
the holy Pope in Rome.
It was Benedict the 15th.
So the child, Lucia,
later went into a convent.
She became a nun.
And she give the
message to the Pope
with the order to publish
this message to mankind
on October 13, 1960--
43 years after 1917.
The Pope, 1960,
read the message.
Many journalists were around
it, and the newspapers of 1960
said the Pope answered, I
can not publish this message.
It would create a
panic among humans.
Now, my god, if
the message would
come from the real mother Virgin
Mary, she knows what she does.
And the Pope say, I
can not publish it.
It would create a panic.
Because of this
answer, journalists
start a big speculation.
They said, maybe the message has
to do with the next World War,
with the third World War.
We will all be
destroyed, et cetera.
So they went-- journalists
went to the Bishop of Leiria.
Leiria is the next biggest
city to the village of Fatima,
and the bishop was
living in Leiria.
And they asked the bishop,
does this message from Fatima
has something to do
with the next World War,
with rockets, Pershing,
SS-20, and so on?
And the bishop, who knew
the message, says no.
It has absolutely nothing to
do with the next World War,
with the destruction of mankind.
It concerns our belief.
Now, when it concerns our
belief, why should they
not publish it?
Mother Mary was the one who
gave order to publish it,
and the Catholic church
doesn't publish it.
In my opinion, it was a
message from extraterrestrials.
The extraterrestrials-- in 1917,
they surrounded our planet.
They realized in 1917 mankind
had no advanced technology
for a message going
around the world.
There were no
satellites in 1917.
There were no television
in 1917, et cetera.
So they simply calculated
give them another 40 years,
and then they will be ready.
In this message, probably--
and now I have to speculate.
Probably it said,
well, welcome humans.
Greetings to you, humans.
Don't be afraid of us.
You are not alone
in the universe.
There are many other
societies in the universe.
We were here thousands
of years ago.
We will visit you
again, et cetera.
We will come back in the
next decades, and so on.
Now, between 1917 and
1960, 43 years have passed,
and Fatima has become
a pilgrim place.
Gigantic cathedral is in Fatima.
Millions of believers pray
to the Holy Virgin Mary.
And now in 1960, the Pope
realized this message--
it was not the Holy Virgin Mary.
That's why he said,
I cannot publish it.
It would create a panic.
Now, speculations
come up, has it
to do with the next World War?
And the bishop of
Leiria said, no.
It has nothing to do
with the next World War.
It concerns our belief.
Yes, because it was the
extraterrestrials, and not
the mother Mary.
Now, 100 years have passed.
This year I expect maybe
that they show up again.
They show us again what
in 1917 they believed
it's a miracle of the sun.
But it was not a
miracle of the sun.
It was an extraterrestrial
spaceship.
They gave us 100 years of time,
and they will show up again--
I hope, at least.
This is my wish, my dream.
All the popes since
1960 know the message.
None of them has opened
it to the public--
none of them.
There are speculations--
all kinds of speculations.
I studied this very carefully.
The speculations
contradict each other.
Some of the popes are really
telling lies concerning Fatima.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was one of these figures,
which already 30 years ago was
in Colorado in the mountain
called Space command.
I was one of there.
At that time, it
was a secret visit,
and I saw they observed
everything around the Earth--
everything.
They said, you see, this is
exactly the Soyuz satellite--
whatever numbers it, and said,
well, this is calculators.
They know.
It's exactly now over America,
and every position there.
Of course, I ask
them about UFOs.
Have you ever, with your
observations, seen UFO?
They said, of course.
What do you say to it?
That we can say nothing.
They are too fast.
Their speed is so
incredible, and they
make some maneuvers--
rectangular maneuvers,
which we can not imitate.
So we know for sure it's
something different,
but we don't have
to be afraid of it.
Of course, in Space Command,
here in the Cheyenne Mountain
here, they know it, but
they don't go to public.
Other dimensional
beings might well exist.
My knowledge is too
poor to understand this.
But on the other
hand, my fantasy
accepts gigantic
distances to beings
which have no more body, which
just exist in a spiritual way.
This is absolutely possible.
It makes sense.
It could even be that in our
evolution some 100,000 years
in the future, we do not
need our body anymore,
because we don't need to be
feeded anymore and to drink
and whatever.
So we leave our body, and we
become spiritual intelligences.
I think this makes a certain
sense, at least in my dreams.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[THEME MUSIC] Host:
Erich von Daniken.